# Royal Protocol

## Introduction

The Royal Protocol offers an immutable solution to register and verify authorship of creative works. The protocol is completely open-source and permissionless and designed for multiple parties to utilize and build on.

Registering provenance onchain will enable provability of authorship or creation across a wide range of creative works, including:

- Music
- Digital Artwork
- Essays & Blog Posts
- ...

## Deployments

The v1.0 contracts are deployed on both Base Mainnet and Base Sepolia, to the same canonical addresses on both mainnet and testnet.

### Base

| Contract           | Address                                                                                                               |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| IdRegistry         | [0x0000002c243D1231dEfA58915324630AB5dBd4f4](https://basescan.org/address/0x0000002c243D1231dEfA58915324630AB5dBd4f4) |
| IdGateway          | [0x000000aA0d40b46F0A78d145c321a9DcfD154Ba7](https://basescan.org/address/0x000000aA0d40b46F0A78d145c321a9DcfD154Ba7) |
| ProvenanceRegistry | [0x0000009F840EeF8A92E533468A0Ef45a1987Da66](https://basescan.org/address/0x0000009F840EeF8A92E533468A0Ef45a1987Da66) |
| ProvenanceGateway  | [0x000000456Bb9Fd42ADd75F4b5c2247f47D45a0A2](https://basescan.org/address/0x000000456Bb9Fd42ADd75F4b5c2247f47D45a0A2) |

## Contracts

This repository contains all the contracts deployed and used by the Royal Protocol. The contracts can be grouped into two different classifications:

### Core Protocol Contracts

**Account System**:

- **[IdRegistry](./src/core/IdRegistry.sol)** - tracks account data for Royal Protocol accounts.
- **[IdGateway](./src/core/IdGateway.sol)** - wrapper for account creation & update logic.

**Provenance System**:

- **[ProvenanceRegistry](./src/core/ProvenanceRegistry.sol)** - tracks ProvenanceClaim data, claimed by Royal Protocol accounts.
- **[ProvenanceGateway](./src/core/ProvenanceGateway.sol)** - wrapper for ProvenanceClaim registration logic.

### Extras

In addition to the core protocol contracts, there are some extra contracts included in this repo that may be useful for service providers or other entities operating within the protocol.

- **[RecoveryProxy](./src/extra/RecoveryProxy.sol)** - A smart contract that can be set as the `recovery` address for an account. Intended to be used by entities offering "Recovery-as-a-Service".
- **[RoyalProtocolAccount](./src/extra/RoyalProtocolAccount.sol)** - An `abstract contract` with logic for managing a Royal Protocol account and registering ProvenanceClaims from a smart contract. Extended by the `ProvenanceRegistrar` contract.

#### Registrar Stuff

These contracts are intended to be used for offering a registrar service.

A registrar is a Royal Protocol account that registers ProvenanceClaims on behalf of other accounts / users. This effectively provides a co-signature or co-attestation that the originator is actually the content of the work.

As an example, imagine I have a AI music app "HAL9000". I could create a Registrar contract that was the custody address of the "HAL9000" Royal Protocol account, and then all songs generated by users on my app could be registered by my Registrar - to indicate that song was generated by that user on the HAL9000 app.

(NOTE: This does assume that each user of my app has a Royal Protocol account that ProvenanceClaims can point to as the originator).

- **[ProvenanceRegistrar](./src/extra/ProvenanceRegistrar.sol)** - A smart contract that can register provenance on behalf of other users.
  - NOTE: For that to work, delegations from users need to be set to this smart contract address on [delegate.xyz](https://delegate.xyz/), OR the users need to sign an EIP712 message for each ProvenanceClaim they want registered by the Registrar.
- **[ProvenanceToken](./src/extra/ProvenanceToken.sol)** - A simple ERC721 NFT contract. Each ProvenanceClaim can optionally have a corresponding NFT token. This contract was designed to be used with the `ProvenanceRegistrar` contract.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome!

This is a Foundry repo - if you haven't used Foundry before, [read more here.](https://book.getfoundry.sh/)

The basic commands:

- `forge build` - Builds the contracts.
- `forge fmt` - Formats the contracts (think Prettier).
- `yarn lint` - Runs [solhint](https://github.com/protofire/solhint) - a Solidity linter, with our lint config.
- `slither . --skip-assembly` - Runs [slither](https://github.com/crytic/slither) - a security-focused code analyzer
- `forge test` - Runs tests. If you contribute, hopefully there are more tests after your contribution!
